
# RentEase

RentEase is a mobile application designed to streamline rental management. Developed with React Native for the frontend and MongoDB for data storage, this app provides an intuitive and efficient way to browse, book, and manage property rentals.

## Table of Contents

- [Features](#features)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Project Structure](#project-structure)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Features

- User Authentication: Secure login and signup.
- Property Listings: Browse available properties, view details, and make reservations.
- Booking Management: Track your bookings and manage reservations.
- Notifications: Stay updated with booking status and property availability.
- Admin Dashboard: For property owners to manage listings and track activities.

## Technologies Used

- Frontend: React Native, Expo
- Backend: Node.js, Express
- Database: MongoDB, Firebase for notifications
- Libraries: Axios

## Installation

1. Clone the repository:
   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/solendav/RentEase.git
   cd RentEaseApp-main
   ```

2. Backend Setup:
   - Go to the backend directory:
     ```bash
     cd backend
     ```
   - Install dependencies:
     ```bash
     npm install
     ```
   - Start the server:
     ```bash
     npm start
     ```

3. **Frontend Setup**:
   - Go to the app directory:
     ```bash
     cd frontend
     ```
   - Install dependencies:
     ```bash
     npm install
     ```
   - Run the Expo development server:
     ```bash
     expo start
     ```

4. Environment Variables:
   - Configure your MongoDB connection and other environment variables in `.env` file in the backend directory:
     ```
     MONGODB_URI=your_mongodb_connection_string
     JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret
     ```

## Usage

1. Start the backend server and Expo development server.
2. Scan the QR code generated by Expo using the Expo Go app on your mobile device, or use an emulator to preview the app.

## Project Structure

- backend: Contains the Express server and MongoDB configuration.
- frontend: Contains the React Native code and app components.
- assets: Icons, images, and other static resources used in the app.

## Contributing

Feel free to fork this repository, make feature requests, or report issues. Contributions are welcome!

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

